README.md, before:

How to monitor a Veeam Environment using Veeam Enterprise Manager, Powershell, Telegraf, InfluxDB and Grafana
===================

![alt tag](https://www.jorgedelacruz.es/wp-content/uploads/2017/07/veeam-grafana-restapi-002.png)

This project consists in a Powershell script to retrieve the Veeam Backup & Replication information, directly from the Veeam Enterprise Manager RESTfulAPI, about last jobs, etc, and save it into InfluxDB output which we send to InfluxDB using Telegraf, then in Grafana: a Dashboard is created to present all the information.

We use Veeam Enterprise Manager and the RESTfulAPI to reduce the workload and increase the speed of script execution, here is a comparison between same Script using VeeamPSSnapIn vs. RESTfulAPI:

![alt tag](https://www.jorgedelacruz.es/wp-content/uploads/2017/07/veeam-grafana-restapi-003.png)

----------

### Getting started
You can follow the steps on the next Blog Post - http://jorgedelacruz.uk/2017/07/26/looking-perfect-dashboard-influxdb-telegraf-grafana-part-viii-monitoring-veeam-using-veeam-enterprise-manager/

Or try with this simple steps:
* Download the veeam-stats_EM.ps1 file and change the BRHost, username and password with your real data
* Run the veeam-stats_EM.ps1 to check that you can retrieve the information properly
* Add the next content to your telegraf.conf and restart the telegraf service. Please be aware of path of the Script.
```
 [[inputs.exec]]
  commands = ["powershell C:/veeam-stats_EM.ps1"]
  name_override = "veeamstats_EM"
  interval = "60s"
  timeout = "60s"
  data_format = "influx"
```
* It's probably that you will need to change the Telegraf Service in Windows to be run by another user other than Local System

![alt tag](https://www.jorgedelacruz.es/wp-content/uploads/2017/07/telegraf-service.png)

* Download the grafana-enterprise_manager-dashboard JSON file and import it into your Grafana
* Change your data inside the Grafana and enjoy :)

----------

### Additional Information
* You can find the original code for PRTG here, thank you so much Markus Kraus: https://mycloudrevolution.com/2016/02/29/prtg-veeam-br-monitoring/

I hope it helps you

### Known issues 
If you don't change the Telegraf privileges to run as another user you might see the next error:
```
2017-07-31T09:32:33Z E! Error in plugin [inputs.exec]:  metric parsing error, reason: [missing field value], buffer: [veeamstats_EM successfuljobruns=]
```
Just follow the previous image about how to change the privileges on the Telegraf Windows Service

Commit message:

Shell Script and new full Dashboard
Shell Script and new full Dashboard

README.md, after:

How to monitor a Veeam Environment using Veeam Enterprise Manager, Telegraf, InfluxDB and Grafana
===================
![Veeam Grafana Dashboard for Enterprise Manager](https://www.jorgedelacruz.es/wp-content/uploads/2020/01/veeam-grafana-em-001.png)

Thanks for the interest on this project. You will find two different ways to retrieve the information, a very old v0.1 using PowerShell, which it has limitations, and a brand new way to take the information from the Veeam Enterprise Manager RESTful API using a Bash Shell Script directly from your InfluxDB Server, which it is the recommended one.

We use Veeam Enterprise Manager and the RESTfulAPI to reduce the workload and increase the speed of script execution, here is a comparison between same Script using VeeamPSSnapIn vs. RESTfulAPI:

![alt tag](https://www.jorgedelacruz.es/wp-content/uploads/2017/07/veeam-grafana-restapi-003.png)
----------
### Getting started
For the new Bash Shell Script, please follow the steps on the next Blog Post - 
For PowerShell old version, not recommended, follow the steps on the next Blog Post - http://jorgedelacruz.uk/2017/07/26/looking-perfect-dashboard-influxdb-telegraf-grafana-part-viii-monitoring-veeam-using-veeam-enterprise-manager/

Or try with this simple steps:
* Download the veeam-enterprisemanager.sh file and change the parameters under Configuration, like username/password, etc. with your real data
* Make the script executable with the command chmod +x veeam-enterprisemanager.sh
* Run the veeam-enterprisemanager.sh and check on Chronograf that you can retrieve the information properly
* Schedule the script execution, for example every 30 minutes using crontab -e
* Download the Veeam Enterprise Manager JSON Dashboard file and import it into your Grafana
* Enjoy :)

**Important:** For the section called Veeam Backup Performance, you will need to [install the Telegraf Agent for Windows](https://github.com/influxdata/telegraf/blob/master/docs/WINDOWS_SERVICE.md) on the Veeam Backup & Replication Server. Additionally, you will need to edit the hostname on the telegraf.conf for this VBR Server, and use the proper FQDN, like this:

      ## Override default hostname, if empty use os.Hostname()
      hostname = "yourvbr.yourdomain.com"

----------

### Additional Information
* The old PowerShell way to retrieve data was thanks to Markus Kraus: https://mycloudrevolution.com/2016/02/29/prtg-veeam-br-monitoring/

### Known issues 
Would love to see some known issues and keep opening and closing as soon as I have feedback from you guys. Fork this project, use it and please provide feedback.
